helium wallet migration guide (#1041)
helium/docs: docs/wallets/wallets.mdx

their balances are automatically transferred to the Solana Blockchain under the same token name.

Your public Wallet address will change, but your private key and seed phrase (12 or 24 word) will
remain the same.

### For Ledger Wallet Users

Ledger users will need to update their Helium Ledger App to a version that's pending release. This
upcoming version will use the Solana private key derivation path that moves all your tokens and
balances over to Solana. You may need to uninstall any Solana Ledger Apps during the Wallet
migration process.

Your public key will change on Solana but the private key will remain the same.

### For CLI Wallet Users

:::caution The Helium CLI Wallet Will Be Depreciated

The CLI Wallet will be completely deprecated except for exporting private seed phrases and
displaying public Solana addresses.

Check out the [Solana Documentation](https://docs.solana.com/wallet-guide/cli) for more information
on Solana Command Line Wallets.

:::

The CLI Wallet will have its feature set pared down as there are many other Solana-compatible CLI
Wallets. The existing Helium CLI Wallet will be reduced to the following two functions:

> 1. Export Seed Phrase to import into a Solana CLI Wallet (or the Helium Wallet app)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Export Seed Phrase or private key to import into a Solana CLI Wallet (or the Helium Wallet app)
```

<img className="docsheader" src={useBaseUrl('img/wallets/header.png')} />

## Helium Is Moving To Solana

> All Hotspots on the Helium Network with an animal name will automatically become a

Reviewer: this feels like a very abrupt introduction to "Helium is moving to Solana". Can there be a little more preamble?

Author: preamble added, may need some more work. but also didn't want to deviate too far off topic from Wallet stuff to general L1 migration stuff

[Solana NFT](https://solana.com/developers/nfts), visible in the
[Helium Wallet app](/wallets/helium-wallet-app), and maintained by the Hotspot
[Maker apps](/mine-hnt/maker-apps).

As part of the Helium migration to Solana, there are some changes to existing Helium Wallets.

The sections below provide more information for the different Wallets and what can be expected as
part of the migration.

## Hotspots on Solana

Hotspots will also move to the new Solana blockchain, specifically performing off-chain
Proof-of-Coverage. More information on off-chain PoC can be found in
[HIP-70](https://github.com/helium/HIP/blob/main/0070-scaling-helium.md#implementing-proof-of-coverage-oracles).

Makers will push a fleet-wide update to all their Hotspots that switches a Hotspot from receiving
Challenges from Validators to automatically beaconing by themselves every 6 hours and sending
results to an Off-Chain Oracle.

Makers must push this mandatory update to their fleet of Hotspots. Failure to do so will mean their
customers cease to mine and stop earning rewards once the migration is complete.

> ### Hotspots Will Being To Earn IOT

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Hotspots Will Earn IOT
```

[Helium Wallet app](/wallets/helium-wallet-app).

<div class="container" style={{ marginBottom: 20 }}>
  <div class="row" style={{ marginBottom: 20 }}>
    <div class="col col--6 img-center">
      <b>Hotspot view in the Hotspot App</b>
    </div>
    <div class="col col--6 img-center">
      <b>Hotspot as NFT in [Helium Wallet app](/wallets/helium-wallet-app)</b>
    </div>
  </div>
  <div class="row" style={{ marginBottom: 20 }}>
    <div class="col col--6 img-center">
      <img className="appscreen" src={useBaseUrl('img/wallets/hotspot-app.png')} />
    </div>
    <div class="col col--6 img-center">
      <img className="appscreen" src={useBaseUrl('img/wallets/hotspot-as-nft.png')} />
    </div>
  </div>
</div>

---

## Sunsetting the Helium App

> Some users may know the [Helium app](/wallets/app-wallet) as the "Helium Hotspot App" or "the blue
> app."

The existing [Helium Hotspot app](/wallets/app-wallet) will be restricted to only management of
Original Helium Hotspots in two phases.

**Phase 1:**

> ETA December 19, 2022

- Hotspot App users will be migrated to use the [Helium Wallet app](/wallets/helium-wallet-app) for
  Helium Wallet management.

> - New Hotspots will no longer be able to be onboarded using the Helium App, and will instead to app

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Users can no longer onboard new Hotspots using the Helium App. All new Hotspots will be directed to use the Hotspot's Maker app, web dashboard, or contact email support (in the event that a Maker app is not available). 

:::note
All Makers had a deadline to launch their Maker app by March of 2022. Makers without an app or web dashboard either have an app in development or have not responded to requests for additional updates. 
:::

```

  stores, dashboards, or their email support.
- Hotspot management for _existing_ Hotspots still available in the Hotspot App.
- The `transfer_hotspot` and `assert_location` will use the Helium Wallet app for signatures.

**Phase 2:**

> ETA January 2023

- Hotspot management will be handled by Maker apps.
- Original Helium Hotspots will be managed by the Helium App.
- All remaining wallet functionality will use the Helium Wallet app.

:::note What If I Miss The Migration Deadline?

Users that do not transition to the Helium Wallet app prior to the Solana migration will still be
able to access their seed phrase and transition to the Helium Wallet app but will not be able to
submit transactions in the Helium app.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Seed phrase export functionality will remain in the app for at least 1 year post-migration.
```

The core team will make this update available to Makers in an SDK update weeks before the chain halt
to allow Makers time to make the update, release the app to the app store, and available to Hotspot
owners.

The minimum app version will change with each Maker - please check with them for exact details.

:::note Maker Updates

Note that Makers that do not update their Maker apps will mean their customers will not be able to
add new Hotspots to the network, transfer existing Hotspots, or assert locations.

:::

## Wallet Migration Guides

As part of the migration to Solana, all Helium Wallets will need to be migrated to the Solana
blockchain. What this means for each Helium Wallet type is explained below.

### For Helium App Users

The [Helium app](/wallets/app-wallet) will require a migration to the
[Helium Wallet app](/wallets/helium-wallet-app). Migration is necessary to interact with your HNT,
DC, MOBILE, IOT, and Hotspots.

To start, ensure your [Helium app](/wallets/app-wallet) is updated and that you have downloaded the
latest Helium Wallet app.

1. Open the [Helium app](/wallets/app-wallet) (minimum v4.3.0)

> 2. Tap `Export 12 Word Seed Phrase` in the migration popup

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Tap `Start Migration` in the migration popup
```

> 3. The [Helium Wallet app](/wallets/helium-wallet-app) will automatically open. Tap `Import`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Confirm the Wallet account you want to import, then tap `Export to Wallet App`. The [Helium Wallet app](/wallets/helium-wallet-app) will automatically open and complete the migration.
```

> 4. Now your HNT, DC, MOBILE, and Hotspots have successfully moved to the Solana Blockchain.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Now your HNT, DC, MOBILE, and Hotspots have successfully moved to the Helium Wallet App and ready for the Solana migration, which will happen automatically in January 2023.
```

> You will use the [Helium Wallet app](/wallets/helium-wallet-app) moving forward. You will locate

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You will use the [Helium Wallet app](/wallets/helium-wallet-app) moving forward. You can find
```

> Hotspot NFTs in the NFT Collectibles section, and token balances are visible on the account page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Hotspot NFTs in the NFT Collectibles section once Helium on Solana goes live. Token balances are visible on the account page.
```

You can also create multiple accounts in the [Helium Wallet app](/wallets/helium-wallet-app).

> Your public wallet address will change, but your private key and 12-word seed phrase will remain the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Your public wallet address will change post-migration, but your private key and 12-word seed phrase will remain the
```

Helium Wallet type is explained below.

:::note Download the Helium Wallet Apps

<div class="container">
  <div class="row">
    <div class="col col--6 img-center">
      <a href="https://apps.apple.com/us/app/helium-hnt-wallet/id1609525848">
        <img
          className="app-store-badge"
          src={useBaseUrl('img/app-store-badges/apple-app-store-badge-en.svg')}
        />
      </a>
    </div>
    <div class="col col--6 img-center">
      <a href="https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.helium.wallet.app">
        <img
          className="app-store-badge"
          src={useBaseUrl('img/app-store-badges/google-play-store-badge-en.svg')}
        />
      </a>
    </div>
  </div>
</div>

:::

### For Helium App Users

The [Helium app](/wallets/app-wallet) will require a migration to the
[Helium Wallet app](/wallets/helium-wallet-app). Wallet migration is necessary to interact with your
HNT, DC, MOBILE, IOT, and Hotspots on the Solana blockchain.

To start, ensure your [Helium app](/wallets/app-wallet) is updated and that you have downloaded the
latest Helium Wallet app.

1. Open the [Helium app](/wallets/app-wallet) (minimum v4.3.0)

> 2. Tap `Start Migration` in the Wallet migration popup

Reviewer: screenshots sent offline.

visible on the account page. You can also create multiple accounts in the
[Helium Wallet app](/wallets/helium-wallet-app).

Your public Wallet address will change post-migration, but your private key and 12-word seed phrase
will remain the same.

### For Helium Wallet App Users

> Some users may know the [Helium Wallet app](/wallets/helium-wallet-app) as the "New Wallet app" or
> "the black app."

To migrate to Solana, simply update your [Helium Wallet app](/wallets/helium-wallet-app) version to
2.0.0 or newer. That’s it!

If you have Hotspots in any account, they will appear as an NFT Collectable. All other tokens and
their balances are automatically transferred to the Solana Blockchain under the same token name.

Your public Wallet address will change, but your private key and seed phrase (12 or 24 word) will
remain the same.

### For Ledger Wallet Users

Ledger users will need to update their Helium Ledger App to a version that's pending release. This
upcoming version will use the Solana private key derivation path that moves all your tokens and
balances over to Solana. You may need to uninstall any Solana Ledger Apps during the Wallet
migration process.

> Your public key will change on Solana and the private key will also need to be updated.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Your public key will change on Solana but the private key will remain the same.
```
